Plugin Conflict Case 004 — Page Builder + Theme Conflict
Date: June 2026
Category: Theme / Page Builder / Frontend Display
Status: ✅ Resolved
Severity: Medium
1. Problem Description
After installing Elementor page builder, site frontend showing broken layout. Header and footer disappeared on pages built with Elementor. CSS styling completely broken — text overlapping, images misaligned. Theme customizations not showing on Elementor pages.
2. Environment
WordPress Version: 6.5
Theme: Divi (by Elegant Themes)
Page Builder: Elementor
Symptoms: Broken layout, missing header/footer, CSS conflicts
3. Root Cause
Divi theme has its own built-in page builder (Divi Builder). When Elementor is installed alongside Divi, both builders load their own CSS frameworks and JavaScript libraries. These conflict with each other — Divi's CSS overrides Elementor's styling and vice versa. Additionally, Divi's template system conflicts with Elementor's canvas mode, causing header and footer to disappear.
4. Troubleshooting Steps
✅ Switched to Twenty Twenty-Four theme — Elementor worked perfectly
✅ Confirmed issue only with Divi theme
✅ Disabled Divi Builder — partial improvement
✅ Identified CSS specificity conflicts in browser DevTools
5. Solution
Option A: Use only one page builder (Recommended)
Choose either Divi Builder OR Elementor — not both
If keeping Elementor: Switch to Elementor-compatible theme
Best free themes for Elementor: Hello Elementor, Astra, OceanWP
If keeping Divi: Deactivate and delete Elementor completely
Option B: Use Elementor with Divi theme carefully
Step 1: In Elementor → edit page → Settings → Page Layout → Elementor Canvas
This removes Divi's header/footer interference
Step 2: Add custom header/footer using Elementor Pro Header Footer builder
Step 3: Add this CSS to fix conflicts:
.elementor-page .et_pb_section {
    padding: 0 !important;
}
.elementor-widget-container {
    font-family: inherit !important;
}

Step 4: Clear all cache and test
6. Why This Happened
Divi and Elementor are both "full site" builders that want complete control over the page output. They both hook into the_content filter, enqueue their own CSS/JS, and modify template structure. Running both simultaneously creates an irresolvable CSS specificity war and JavaScript conflicts.
7. Resolution Status
✅ Using only one page builder permanently resolves all conflicts.
✅ Hello Elementor theme + Elementor is the most conflict-free combination.
8. Prevention Tips
Never install two page builders on the same site
Before installing Elementor, check if your theme has a built-in builder
Always test new page builders on a staging site first
Check plugin compatibility at wordpress.org before installing
Elementor's official compatible themes list: elementor.com/blog/elementor-themes